# Mitigation

Goose can optionally attempt to mitigate Coordinated Omission by back-filling the metrics with the statistically expected requests. To do this, it tracks the normal "cadence" of each `GooseUser`, timing how long it takes to loop through all `GooseTasks` in the assigned `GooseTaskSet`. By default, Goose will trigger Coordinated Omission Mitigation if the time to loop through a `GooseTaskSet` takes more than twice as long as the average time of all previous loops. In this case, on the next loop through the `GooseTaskSet` when tracking the actual metrics for each subsequent request in all `GooseTasks` it will also add in statistically generated "requests" with a `response_time` starting at the unexpectedly long request time, then again with that `response_time` minus the normal "cadence", continuing to generate a metric then subtract the normal "cadence" until arriving at the expected `response_time`. In this way, Goose is able to estimate the actual effect of a slowdown.

When Goose detects an abnormally slow request (one in which the individual request takes longer than the normal `user_cadence`), it will generate an INFO level message (which will be visible if Goose was started with the `-v` run time flag, or written to the log if started with the `-g` run time flag and `--goose-log` is configured). For example:

```bash
13:10:30 [INFO] 11.401s into goose attack: "GET http://apache/node/1557" [200] took abnormally long (1814 ms), task name: "(Anon) node page"
13:10:30 [INFO] 11.450s into goose attack: "GET http://apache/node/5016" [200] took abnormally long (1769 ms), task name: "(Anon) node page"
```

If the `--request-log` is enabled, you can get more details, in this case by looking for elapsed times matching the above messages, specifically 1814 and 1769 respectively:

```json
{"coordinated_omission_elapsed":0,"elapsed":11401,"error":"","final_url":"http://apache/node/1557","method":"Get","name":"(Anon) node page","redirected":false,"response_time":1814,"status_code":200,"success":true,"update":false,"url":"http://apache/node/1557","user":2,"user_cadence":1727}
{"coordinated_omission_elapsed":0,"elapsed":11450,"error":"","final_url":"http://apache/node/5016","method":"Get","name":"(Anon) node page","redirected":false,"response_time":1769,"status_code":200,"success":true,"update":false,"url":"http://apache/node/5016","user":0,"user_cadence":1422}
```

In the requests file, you can see that two different user threads triggered Coordinated Omission Mitigation, specifically threads 2 and 0. Both `GooseUser` threads were loading the same `GooseTask` as due to task weighting this is the task loaded the most frequently. Both `GooseUser` threads loop through all `GooseTasks` in a similar amount of time: thread 2 takes on average 1.727 seconds, thread 0 takes on average 1.422 seconds.

Also if the `--request-log` is enabled, requests back-filled by Coordinated Omission Mitigation show up in the generated log file, even though they were not actually sent to the server. Normal requests not generated by Coordinated Omission Mitigation have a `coordinated_omission_elapsed` of 0.

Coordinated Omission Mitigation is disabled by default. This experimental feature can be enabled by enabling the `--co-mitigation` run time option when starting Goose. It can be configured to use the `average`, `minimum`, or `maximum` `GoouseUser` cadence when backfilling statistics.

